#346 Document characters encoding issue in NextJS (#157)
infinum/frontend-handbook: React/Recipes/Characters encoding issue in static pages in NextJS.md

## Motivation

Although this is not an issue with NextJS but React (check more details [here](https://github.com/facebook/react/issues/13838)),

> you can encounter this if you have the static pages, and those static pages have some HTML entities in the page content -

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you can encounter this if you have static pages that have some HTML entities in the page content -
```

e.g. ampersand (`&`) in query parameters.

> 
> The static pages will have the HTML entities being encoded, which will result in incorrect content. Probably it will be
> decoded correctly on the client, but this might be an issue for the crawlers for your static content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These HTML entities will not be encoded by default, which will result in incorrect content. This will pose an issue mostly for crawlers.
```

![Ampersand is encoded incorrect](/img/nextjs/nextjs_encoding_issue.jpg)

> Because of this, there is a way to handle it by adding a custom decode in `_document` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This can be fixed by adding a custom decode method in the `_document` file.
```

Disclaimer:
* Check if this issue is still happening

> * Check if need this fix

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Check if the fix is needed
```

> * Always be cautious when changing default NextJS configurations for a custom document ([custom document](https://nextjs.org/docs/advanced-features/custom-document#customizing-renderpage))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Always be cautious when changing default Next.js [custom document](https://nextjs.org/docs/advanced-features/custom-document#customizing-renderpage) configurations
```

> To prepare for React 18, we recommend avoiding customizing getInitialProps and renderPage, if possible.

## Implementation

If you do not have the `_document` file in the `pages` folder, create a file with the default content ([copy all except gIP in _document](https://nextjs.org/docs/advanced-features/custom-document#customizing-renderpage)) and:

* install the `html-entities` package (https://github.com/mdevils/html-entities)  

> * add an import to the `html-entities` package

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* import the `html-entities` package
```

```javascript
import { decode } from 'html-entities';
```
* add the gIP implementation in the class
```jsx
static async getInitialProps(ctx) {
    const initialProps = await Document.getInitialProps(ctx);
    // based on https://github.com/vercel/next.js/issues/2006
    return {
        ...initialProps,
        html: initialProps.html.replace(
            /(href|src|srcSet)="([^"]+)"/g,
            (match, attribute, value) => `${attribute}="${decode(value)}"`
        ),
    };
}
```
* add or change regex properties to handle more cases

> The above code executes for all the pages in NextJS, searches and replaces all `href`, `src` and `srcSet` attributes in HTML with the
> decoded characters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above code searches and replaces all `href`, `src` and `srcSet` attributes in all pages with decoded characters.
```
